



# house of brands

explain the rebrand / web overhaul project by looking at previous chats. during that project, i would have weely reviews with Sam, our CEO. a common theme in his feedback was 1) something inactionable like "look at Stripe" and 2) a recurring push to "make it iconic." of course, it's totally common for founders who don't interface with design or have that background to not know how to give feedback. or to learn how to give feedback that leads to great work, but ignore it bc they are moving too quickly, don't feel they need to bc of their position, and more. this is a very common tale, having to work with C-types to really underestand what they mean. this true for us. 

on the former, that required on-going redirection to expand on what he means. that lead to the feedback framework. which i shared, later pointed to, and eventually shared at an org-wise level as that kind of feedback was given from marketing, our biggest requestor. hard to measure how well it worked, but i did notice a ssea change from Sam. insstead of "see Whats App", he's be much more specific, like "this works for our brand today, but in the not-to-distant future we want to go after higher edducation. how can we build the brand to flex to that audience?" Incredible! 

on the latter, i started with research. had anyone else heard him talk about the company like this? does he mean something else? before i joined, the company worked with an agency to rebrand the parent company, Dojo, and i noticed that feedback came up there but it wasn't acknowledged or addressed. i searched slack, google docs, asana, figma, and talked to my team, the CMO, marketing. thsi research uncovered, yes, he uses that phraase a lot, no i don't think he means what that is, no, its never really been called out. 

before i joined, there wasn't a brand lead who understand what that meant so it was ignored at best, and at worst the team tried to build toward it, creating differeing illustration directions and then reverting back. 

once i did my rsearch, i called it out during a project he left feedback on - i had my moment, something the team was working on where that phrase was called out. i created a deck that focused on brand architecture models, showed him what a house of brnands is, and verbalized what that would mean for us. i compared our companyto something like proctor and gamble where brands like Charmin and Duracell never live within the same world. conversely, our organization, has the word "dojo" in every product, a character that represents each product and shares the illustration style acrross the brands, has a similar typeface, color system, etc. i argued that at minmum we're a branded house, but pushed for another model: an endorsed model. this would be a long term play that would remove "dojo" from the products and would forcuse us to reconsider the names of our products as "Sparks" isn't ownable. this pitch was our multi-year plan that would require hiring a naming agency, and then - crucially - rebranding with a proper agency to build it out. 

the immediate reaction was clarification, and vocal undestanding. the long term reaction was to move on from that immediate project and, a few months later, talk with myself and daniel about a conversation he had with a world-reknown naming agency to work with us in just a few short months. 

multiple conversations led to this over a multi-month tiem horizon. so at first it felt like it fell on deaf ears. but over time i noticed he would say 'endorsed' model in figma, then slack, then during the company all hands, then to the naming agency mention, then to on going conversations about how to do that right. he'd share articles, like this one, about how companies renamed. and then i'd call out, yes, that's a huge win but note that the part after is the bigger load. daniel, who has more of a view on operating budget, agreed and shared that to do this right we'd need to set asice 1-2% of the operating budget. sam heard us, understood, and decided to push that project for another year. while disappointing, that meant that work we'd done internally was approved and good to use. and now, when we present work, we have fuel to say that we made XYZ change or push to the identity so that each brand stands out as their own, while laddering up to the larger Dojo universe. 