0:00 Hey Sam, how's it going? I just wanted to kind of level set with you about a comment I saw in the family's page about House of Brands.
0:10 Uh, and just kind of pull it out and give it some space to kind of talk about what I think you're saying.
0:15 Uhm, and uh, and kind of what we've talked about in terms of like brand direction. Uhm, so I'm specifically talking about this start of the year.
0:24 The comment thread, uhm, I think with each of these, we should make them feel like distinct brands in their own right, e.g.
0:31 House of Brands versus Branded House. And uhm, that gave me a little bit of pause because I think, I think you mean the first part, the distinct brands.
0:40 Uhm, but I just wanted to kind of like take apart, uhm, when we talk about House of Brands, which is very different than the direction we're going after.
0:48 Uhm, so, I know you know this, but just so we're on the same page, you know, House of Brands is really, uhm, a model where, uhm, the sub-brands are intentionally independent of each other, so there's no shared identity, there's no shared name, color, illustration, uhm, there's not even like a shared 
1:08 universe, like you never see like a Duracell and Pampers world, uhm, and that's by design, uhm, I would argue that customers don't know, intentionally, that there's, uhm, connections between these.
1:22 For example, I learned today that Burt's Bees and Ben & Jerry's are owned by the same company, uhm, I always thought they were kind of like the, you know, down-home independent companies, uhm, and I would argue that most people don't know the parent brands unless they're, like, a in the business or tech
1:37 world. And again, I think all of that's by, by design. Contrast that with the branded house, where, uhm, almost everything that I just described is intentionally opposite.
1:48 So, the parent brand is known, everyone knows who FedEx is, uhm, the sub-brands usually contain the names of the parent brands, so Google Ads, Google Chrome, everyone knows FedEx Ground, FedEx, FedEx Express, and there's intentional, uh, overlap between each sub-brand.
2:06 So, it's just like a, the color difference, or like a, a word change, or both. Contrast all of that, I think, with what, what we have, which is maybe a hybrid, or, or its own thing.
2:19 Uhm, you know, we're working towards creating distinct identities. For each of these, that's kind of what this whole brand website overhaul is.
2:29 You know, thinking through, uhm, having a more distinct, ownable logo for DojoTutor, instead of having it look like Dojo Islands.
2:37 Uhm, cleaning up DojoSparks, having something more ownable for ClassDojo. Are things that we're pursuing.
2:51 Uhm, but, there's a clear connection between each one of these products, which is not like a House of Brands. Uhm, and I think that's important.
3:01 Because, uh, our mission, uh, needs a connected system. Uhm, a House of Brands does not, uh, enable that. I would argue that a House of Brands does weakens the trust that we've built.
3:16 The, sort of, gravitas people have about Dojo is because we know that these products are connected. If we're saying, well, we don't want that connection, but we still want a shared mission, then it gets kind of fractured and scattered.
3:31 And I think we really want to be memorable. Of, of course, among other things. But, having a connection. Connected universe is going to be a lot easier to achieve our mission than a house of brands.
3:42 Uhm, so, in practice, you know, the way that that kind of nets out for us is, uhm, each one of our products has, uhm, a mascot.
3:52 And this mascot is executed in a similar way, 3D. Of course, there are, like, 2D versions and, uhm, you know, d-different versions styles that we use, but they all live in the same world.
4:05 Uhm, again, contrast that with house of brands, you would never see, like, a Duracell ad that feels like it's in the world of Mr.
4:15 Clean. Like, that, that's just not how house of brands work. And, and that's not how we are by design. Uhm, and that's really important because to kind of get back to the vision that we have, you know, we see a future where all of our products are current ones and future ones.
4:34 You know, dojo organizations or whatever it is. Coding, uhm, there's a shared universe, so you can imagine kind of like a Pixar story where we have these sort of cast of characters, again, from the sort of vision board that we created.
4:49 Uhm, a dojo con is inclusive of all of the products, so if you're a teacher or district leader, you know, you come to the conference and you're like, oh yeah, we use, uhm, Dojo Tutor, uhm, my teachers use Dojo Tutor to earn money in the summer, and, you know, we use Class Dojo for districts and whatever
5:10 . Like, you know that they're all a part, uhm, of this shared universe. Uhm, and same thing with, like, a theme park, right?
5:18 Like, the theme park would have multiple characters. There's Mickey Mouse, but there's also, like, Star Wars, and there's also, you know, Pixar.
5:26 It's not just Sparks Land or Islands Land. Uhm, so I think, you know, one way of thinking about this is that we want a kid to say one day.
5:37 Like, I grew up on Dojo, uhm, and Dojo being inclusive of all these products, uhm, which is just not how a house of brands would work.
5:46 You would never hear, like, oh, I love Unilever and all of their 16,000 products. Probably because you don't know what Unilever is, again, unless you're in the product or tech space, and there's intentional division between all of those products.
6:01 Uhm, actually, I think, uh, Regan, our intern on social, did grow up on Dojo, and so she had kind of like a fan club, and so she's kind of like a good example of this.
6:13 Anyways, so, just to kind of end this quick loom, uhm, I think what you mean is this, the feel distinctive, rather than house of brands.
6:24 comments. And, and I 100% agree, and that's fully what we've been working with, or working towards, you know, we're trying to build, uh, differentiation between our core products, and, uhm, and quite frankly, to have more assets to use.
6:41 So, right now, for Back to School launch, the families page just doesn't have very much, right? There's not really a logo for, uh, Tutor, there's no mascot, there's no Hero Color, we have photography, kind of.
6:56 Conversely, there's a whole lot to work with, with Islands, and we're starting to get there with Sparks. Uhm, but, but, but that's, that's the problem we're solving, right?
7:06 We're trying to build a distinct set of brands, not a house of brands. So anyways, I hope that's helpful if this is clear as mud, or you totally disagree.
7:16 Uhm, let's, let's just keep talking about it, let's find some time to sync up, because if we truly do want to be a house of brands, then I think we should pump the brakes on, on all the exploration we've done, because it would change quite a lot.
7:29 But anyways, let me know what you think. Uhm, thanks man, talk soon.